Docs release 1.10.0 csi 4365 host define (#517)
IBM/ibm-block-csi-driver: docs/content/using/using_hostdefinition.md

# Using dynamic host definition

Dynamic host connectivity eliminates the necessity for manual host definitions. The host definer handles changes in the Kubernetes clusters that relate to the host definition feature and applies them to the relevant clusters. This also facilitates the scaling out process of a cluster. 

> A use case example of this is when creating a new storage class with a new storage. With the dynamic host definition feature, the new storage is applied to the relevant clusters and for each host on the storage, a new host definition resource is created. With these resources the status of the host on the storage system can easily be retrieved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A use case example of this is when creating a new storage class with a new storage. With the dynamic host definition feature, new host definitions on storage are created for the relevant nodes, and for each host definition on the storage, a new host definition resource is created. With these resources, the status of the host definition on the storage system can easily be retrieved.
```

Author: updated

> The host definer identifies the hosts available for host definition on each storage system and controls each of the host definitions. To see the phase status of all managed host definitions by the host definer, use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The host definer identifies the nodes available for host definition on each storage system and controls each of the host definitions. To see the phase status of all managed host definitions by the host definer, use:
```

Author: updated

>      $> kubectl get hostdefinitions

Reviewer: @matancarmeli7 isn't this namespaced?

Reviewer 2: no

|Phase|Description|
|---------|--------|
|Ready|Host definition is created and is working as expected.|

> |PendingForCreation|Host definition did not complete during the last attempt. The host definer will try again.|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|PendingCreation|Host definition did not complete during the last attempt. The host definer will try again.|
```

Author: updated

> |PendingForDeletion|Host deletion did not complete during the last attempt. The host definer will try again.|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|PendingForDeletion|Host deletion did not complete during the last attempt. The host definer will try again.|
```
```suggestion
|PendingDeletion|Host deletion did not complete during the last attempt. The host definer will try again.|
```

Author: done

|Error|Host definition or deletion did not complete and will not try again.|

## Recovering from an Error state

If any of the host definitions have an Error status, follow this procedure to have the host definer reattempt to define the hosts.

1. Undeploy the CSI node pod from the relevant node that the `HostDefinition` is a part of.
2. Verify that all `HostDefinition` instances of the node are deleted.
     

>           $> kubectl get hostdefinition | grep <hostname> | wc -l

Reviewer 3: `<nodename>`

Author: replaced across files

     
     The output should be `0`.
3. Redeploy the CSI node pod on the relevant node.

     The host definer handles the creation of the new host definition on the storage side.
        
4. Verify that the `hostdefinition` is in the _Ready_ phase.

    ```
    $> kubectl get hostdefinition
    NAME                     AGE    PHASE   STORAGE               NODE
    <host_definition_name1>  102m   Ready   <management_address>  <node_name1>

>     <host_definition_name2>  102m   Ready   <management_address>  <node_name2>

Reviewer 2: we removed the `Storage` field, can you remove it also here in the example?

Author: updated

|PendingForDeletion|Host deletion did not complete during the last attempt. The host definer will try again.|
|Error|Host definition or deletion did not complete and will not try again.|

## Recovering from an Error state

If any of the host definitions have an Error status, follow this procedure to have the host definer reattempt to define the hosts.

1. Undeploy the CSI node pod from the relevant node that the `HostDefinition` is a part of.
2. Verify that all `HostDefinition` instances of the node are deleted.
     
          $> kubectl get hostdefinition | grep <hostname> | wc -l
     
     The output should be `0`.
3. Redeploy the CSI node pod on the relevant node.

     The host definer handles the creation of the new host definition on the storage side.
        
4. Verify that the `hostdefinition` is in the _Ready_ phase.

    ```
    $> kubectl get hostdefinition
    NAME                     AGE    PHASE   STORAGE               NODE
    <host_definition_name1>  102m   Ready   <management_address>  <node_name1>
    <host_definition_name2>  102m   Ready   <management_address>  <node_name2>
    ```

> ## Updating the host definer` custom resource

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configuring the host definer
```

Author: updated and placed under configuring

# Using dynamic host definition

> Dynamic host connectivity removes the necessity for manual host definitions. This is also facilitates the scaling out process of a node. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dynamic host connectivity removes the necessity for manual host definitions. This also facilitates the scaling out process of a cluster. 
```

Reviewer: and what do you think about:
`removes the necessity` -> `eliminates the onus`

Author: typo fixed

> The `HostDefiner` identifies the hosts available for host definition on each storage system and controls each of the host definitions. To see the statuses of the managed host definitions by the host definer, use the `hostdefinition` command.

Reviewer: is `kubectl` omitted from:
>the `get hostdefinitions` command

on purpose? because there isn't actually a command that would work by starting with `get`

Use the `hostdefinitions` command to see the phase status of all definitions on the storage side.

     $> kubectl get hostdefinitions

|Phase|Description|
|---------|--------|
|Ready|Host definition is created and is working as expected.|
|PendingForCreation|Host definition did not complete during the last attempt. The `HostDefiner` will try again.|
|PendingForDeletion|Host deletion did not complete during the last attempt. The `HostDefiner` will try again.|
|Error|Host definition or deletion did not complete and will not try again.|

## Recovering from an Error state

If any of the host definitions have an Error status, follow this procedure to have the `HostDefiner` reattempt to define the hosts.

> 1. Undeploy the CSI node pod from the relevant node that the `HostDefinition` is a part of.

Reviewer: should we elaborate about how (`IBMBlockCSI` node affinity)?

Author: @matancarmeli7 ?
I'm not sure what this means

Reviewer 2: @oriyarde I think we can suggest they use it, but I don't think we need to give them examples, because this is another thing that we need to maintain and there are some ways to do it, what do you think?

Reviewer: I agree this is not part of the host definer docs

2. Verify that all `HostDefinition` instances of the node are deleted.
     
          $> kubectl get hostdefinition | grep <hostname> | wc -l
     
     The output should be `0`.
3. Redeploy the CSI node pod on the relevant node.

>      The HostDefiner handles all of the new host definitions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     The host definer handles all of the new host definitions.
```

Author: updated

Reviewer: I still see `HostDefiner` in many places.
IMO `HostDefiner` is the CR name, and the component name is simply `host definer` (similar to how the "CSI driver" CR is `IBMBlockCSI`)

Author: fixed

Reviewer: the `HostDefiner` custom resource merely tells the operator to deploy the host definer.

so in places such as:
>The `HostDefiner` custom resource handles changes in the Kubernetes clusters that relate to the host definition feature

the CR should be replaced by the "host definer" itself

Reviewer: now I see:
>The host definer custom resource can optionally be installed as part of this process.

but, as I wrote, the custom resource name is actually `HostDefiner`

Author: so every time that I write it together with custom resource, it should be written as `HostDefiner`?

Reviewer: yes (except for places where it should be the custom resource, e.g. `handles changes in the Kubernetes clusters`)

Author: updated all instances and aligned with how IBMBlockCSI is written

        
4. Verify that the `hostdefinition` is in the _Ready_ phase.

    ```
    $> kubectl get hostdefinition
    NAME                     AGE    PHASE   STORAGE               NODE
    <host_definition_name1>  102m   Ready   <management_address>  <node_name1>
    <host_definition_name2>  102m   Ready   <management_address>  <node_name2>
    ```

## Updating the `HostDefiner.yaml`

Some of the parameters within the `HostDefiner.yaml` are configurable. Use this information to help decide whether the parameters for your storage system need to be updated.
    
|Field|Description|
|---------|--------|

> |prefix|Adds a prefix to the hosts defined by the CSI driver.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|prefix|Adds a prefix to the hosts defined by the host definer|
```

Author: updated

|connectivity|Selects the connectivity type for the host ports.<br>Possible input values are:<br>- `nvme` for use with NVME over Fibre Channel connectivity<br>- `fc` for use with Fibre Channel over SCSI connectivity<br>- `iscsi` for use with iSCSI connectivity<br><br>By default, this field is blank and the driver selects the first of available connectivity types available on the storage system, according to the following hierarchy: NVMe, FC, iSCSI.|
|allowDelete|Defines whether the `HostDefiner` is allowed to delete host definitions.<br>Input values are `true` or `false`.<br>The default value is `true`.|

> |dynamicNodeLabeling|Defines whether the `HostDefiner` chooses which nodes to manage dynamically by their CSI node resource or if the user must create the `hostdefiner.block.csi.ibm.com/managed-by=true` label on each relevant node.<br>Input values are `true` or `false`.<br>The default value is `false`, where the user must create each label.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|dynamicNodeLabeling|Defines whether the `HostDefiner` chooses which nodes to manage dynamically or if the user must create the `hostdefiner.block.csi.ibm.com/managed-by=true` label on each relevant node.<br>Input values are `true` or `false`.<br>The default value is `false`, where the user must create each label.|
```
`by their CSINode resource` is **how** the definer manages nodes, which is true regardless of the `dynamicNodeLabeling` value

Author: @oriyarde so what is the purpose of the user manually placing this label?

Author: updated

Reviewer: opening a separate conversation for current revision

## Blocking a specific node from being deleted

> In order to block a specific host definition from being deleted by the CSI driver, you can add the following label to the node: `hostdefiner.block.csi.ibm.com/avoid-deletion=true`.

Author: updated

> This works on a per node basis, where the `allowDelete` parameter definition in the `HostDefiner.yaml` is for all nodes on the system.

Author: updated

## Changing host connectivity

> To be able to identify new host connectivity, when the host connectivity type on the storage system needs to be changed, use the following procedure:

Reviewer: I don't think we should use `identify` in this case, because I don't think the identification part is the main goal here.
I think the main semantic field here is for verbs such as `update`/`sync`.
how about something like
```suggestion
After making changes to a node connectivity, in order to re-define it on storage, use the following procedure:
```

Author: updated

|allowDelete|Defines whether the host definer is allowed to delete host definitions.<br>Input values are `true` or `false`.<br>The default value is `true`.|
|dynamicNodeLabeling|Defines whether the nodes that run our CSI node pod are dynamically labelled or if the user must create the `hostdefiner.block.csi.ibm.com/managed-by=true` label on each relevant node. In addition, this label allows the host definer to find all nodes with this label and manages their storage definition.<br>Input values are `true` or `false`.<br>The default value is `false`, where the user must create each label.|

## Blocking a specific node definition from being deleted

In order to block a specific host definition from being deleted by the host definer, you can add the following label to the node: `hostdefiner.block.csi.ibm.com/avoid-deletion=true`.

This works on a per node basis, where the `allowDelete` parameter definition in the `csi_v1_hostdefiner.yaml` is for all cluster nodes.

## Changing host connectivity

> When node connectivity changes take place, use the following procedure to redefine host connectivity:

Reviewer: @matancarmeli7 should we add "assuming `allowDelete` is set"?

Reviewer 2: we can write: "ensure the old host definition was deleted if the node should be deleted"

Author: updated

Reviewer: maybe `ensure the old host definition **is** deleted`?
not sure about `if the node should be deleted` - when is that?
currently it says:
>be sure to delete the old host definition.

which might imply it should not be deleted by the definer, even though it could be convenient.
@rivkap what do you think?

Author: updated before you begin in changing host connectivity

1. Undeploy the CSI node pod from the relevant node that the `HostDefinition` is a part of.
2. Verify that all `HostDefinition` instances of the node are deleted.
     
          $> kubectl get hostdefinition | grep <hostname> | wc -l
     
     The output should be `0`.

> 3. From the host, change the host connectivity type.

Reviewer: @matancarmeli7 isn't this procedure relevant for other connectivity changes (e.g. adding a port for the same connectivity type)?

Author: does it work also when not using dynamic host connectivity?  if so, is it using the same commands?

Author: I've placed this as a separate sub section within using for now

> 4. Redeploy the CSI node pod on the relevant node.
> 
>      The host definer handles all of the new host definitions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Redeploy the CSI node pod on the relevant node.

     The host definer handles the new creation of the new host definition.
```
if the node is singular, so does its definition on storage (currently)

Author: updated

Reviewer: I don't see any change.
please always ensure the changes appear under the `Files changed` tab, or at least that the conversation has an `Outdated` label at the top, as can be seen in other conversations:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/57443811/176901807-76171d33-b03f-4d48-9c85-4938a11a8b47.png)
**before** writing "done"/"updated"/etc...

Author: please check again. I only write updated after I push to github

Reviewer: it was pushed [9 hours ago](https://github.com/IBM/ibm-block-csi-driver/commit/7ea6a193ddd92c10693076b3ef8d52e54e39c86e#diff-b497e2484be1ca3b21e64c4f5ed6cfff1afecf6ef363b6307e272ecb5751e8c5)
